Update semantics: single RFC 6902 patch document, patch-failure error, `targetVersionId` referent (#345)
dcdpr/did-btc1: src/operations/update.md

Input arguments:

- `didSourceDocument`: The source DID document.
- `jsonPatch`: A single JSON Patch document {{#cite RFC6902}} with the changes to be made to the source DID document. Its wire shape is defined by the `patch` property of the [BTCR2 Unsigned Update (data structure)].

> - `targetVersionId`: The `versionId` that resolutions of the DID will report once the new [BTCR2 Signed Update] is applied. Callers SHOULD derive this value from a fresh resolution of the DID, as one more than the integer form of the `versionId` reported in the [DID document metadata (data structure)], rather than keeping their own count. The construction process performs no check on this value; it is enforced at resolution time, and announcing a [BTCR2 Signed Update] whose `targetVersionId` is wrong in either direction can permanently prevent the DID from resolving.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I like the use of 'resolution' as a noun. How about: 

```suggestion
- `targetVersionId`: The `versionId` that will be returned in the [DID document metadata (data structure)] once the new [BTCR2 Signed Update] is applied. Callers SHOULD derive this value from a fresh resolution of the DID, as one more than the integer form of the `versionId` reported in the [DID document metadata (data structure)], rather than keeping their own count. The construction process performs no check on this value; it is enforced at resolution time, and announcing a [BTCR2 Signed Update] whose `targetVersionId` is wrong in either direction can permanently prevent the DID from resolving.
```

> - `targetVersionId`: The `versionId` that will be returned in the [DID document metadata (data structure)] once the new [BTCR2 Signed Update] is applied. Callers SHOULD derive this value from a fresh resolution of the DID, as one more than the integer form of the `versionId` reported in the [DID document metadata (data structure)], rather than keeping their own count. The construction process performs no check on this value; it is enforced at resolution time, and announcing a [BTCR2 Signed Update] whose `targetVersionId` is wrong in either direction can permanently prevent the DID from resolving.

Reviewer 2: I would probably put the rule for deriving `targetVersionId` in its own normative paragraph. This specific section is defining the inputs, not necessarily the update semantics.

Author: yeah fair enough. I think it makes sense to move it to the Construct Unsigned Update section since its meant to be part of the update process.

This process constructs a [BTCR2 Unsigned Update (data structure)].

> Apply `jsonPatch` to `didSourceDocument` to create `didTargetDocument`. An [`INVALID_DID_UPDATE`] error MUST be raised if `jsonPatch` is malformed or fails to apply. (JSON Patch {{#cite RFC6902}} operations are evaluated in order; the first operation that fails, including a failed `test` operation, fails the whole patch.) `didTargetDocument` MUST be conformant to DID Core v1.1 {{#cite DID-CORE}}. An [`INVALID_DID_UPDATE`] error MUST be raised if `didTargetDocument.id` is not equal to `didSourceDocument.id`.

Reviewer 2: Should this note about patch order/testing be omitted here, or added to resolve.md:190? For consistency between the two places where JSON patches are applied.

Alternatively, a short section in the Algorithms chapter can cover JSON patches, if appropriate.

Author: I think it has value being there, so I agree, adding it to resolve for consistency makes sense.

Fill the [BTCR2 Unsigned Update (data structure)] template below with the required template variables.

> * `array-of-patches`: `jsonPatch` embedded as JSON. The patch becomes the array value of the `patch` property, not a JSON string value.

Reviewer 2: Remove the "not a JSON string value". This "retain the negative" behavior is an annoying LLM-ism when they make corrections.

It's basically saying, "don't do it the wrong way like it was written before in a revision of the document you didn't even read and were completely unaware of until I brought it up for no reason at all".

This process constructs a [BTCR2 Unsigned Update (data structure)].

Apply `jsonPatch` to `didSourceDocument` to create `didTargetDocument`. An [`INVALID_DID_UPDATE`] error MUST be raised if `jsonPatch` is malformed or fails to apply. JSON Patch {{#cite RFC6902}} operations are evaluated in order; the first operation that fails, including a failed `test` operation, fails the whole patch. `didTargetDocument` MUST be conformant to DID Core v1.1 {{#cite DID-CORE}}. An [`INVALID_DID_UPDATE`] error MUST be raised if `didTargetDocument.id` is not equal to `didSourceDocument.id`.

> `targetVersionId` MUST be taken from a fresh resolution of the DID rather than from a locally maintained count. Announcing a [BTCR2 Signed Update] whose `targetVersionId` is wrong in either direction can permanently prevent the DID from resolving.

Reviewer 2: Should this say something specifically about `versionId` in the DID document metadata? It's implied, but I don't feel that's strong enough. (That wording still exists in the Data Structures chapter for the unsigned update.)

Author: Yeah that's a fair point. This should be more explicit. Maybe something like 

> `targetVersionId` MUST be derived from the `versionId` returned in the [DID document metadata (data structure)] by a fresh resolution of the DID ...

I'll push up an edit
